The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Tale of Bunny Cotton-Tail, by Laura
Rountree Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Tale of Bunny Cotton-Tail

Author: Laura Rountree Smith

Release Date: April 03, 2021 [eBook #64982]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Charlene Taylor, David E. Brown, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The Internet
             Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TALE OF BUNNY COTTON-TAIL ***

[Illustration:

  When little Bunny was quite small,
    He read by candle-light;
  But now that he has grown up tall,
    He goes to bed at night!]


  THE TALE
  _of_
  Bunny Cotton-Tail

  _By_ LAURA ROUNTREE SMITH

  [Illustration]

  A. FLANAGAN COMPANY
  CHICAGO AND NEW YORK




  COPYRIGHT 1904
  BY
  A. FLANAGAN COMPANY




THE TALE OF

BUNNY COTTON-TAIL




CHAPTER I


If little Bunny Cotton-Tail had not read by candle-light, this story
might never have been written.

One evening Bunny Cotton-Tail read very late, and he was so excited
over the story he was reading that he waved one paw too near the
candle, and burned it sadly. Poor Bunny cried so loud that all the
neighbors heard him, and came running in to see what was the matter.
Have you ever cried so loud that you could be heard next door?

Mother Cotton-Tail tied up the burned paw in a cabbage leaf and sent
Bunny to bed. And what do you suppose that comical Bunny did? He liked
the smell of the cabbage so well, that he ate the leaf all up, and his
poor paw began to hurt worse than ever.

This time he did not cry, for he was afraid he would be scolded for
eating the cabbage leaf. He crept out of bed and ran out of the house.

Mother Cotton-Tail never allowed little Bunny to go out late at night,
so now everything seemed very strange to him. He looked at the big
moon, and he was afraid. He ran on for some time and he came to a
beautiful garden.

Here he saw more cabbages than he had ever dreamed of! There were big
cabbages, little cabbages, and middle-sized cabbages. He was just going
to have a nice meal when he looked up and saw a very tall creature
waving its arms at him.

Poor little Bunny was sadly frightened. He did not know that this big
thing was only a scare-crow. He had never seen a scare-crow before, in
all his life. But he had seen men, and his mother had told him that men
did not like rabbits. Bunny thought the scare-crow was a man, and he
quickly crept close to a big cabbage, to hide, and lay quite still for
a while.

Every now and then Bunny peeped out from among the cabbage leaves, and
there that awful creature and the moon were, always staring at him!

By and by, he decided to run home, and he started off as fast as his
little legs would carry him. But the moonlight made him dizzy, and he
took the wrong road.

When daylight came, poor little Bunny Cotton-Tail was far from home,
and soon a hunter came that way, and caught him. The hunter put Bunny
in his bag and took him home for his little boy to play with. The
little boy’s name was Harold. When his papa came in with Bunny, Harold
clapped his hands for joy. Then the whole family gathered around and
made remarks about poor Bunny.

“Why are his ears so long?” Harold asked.

“To keep the flies off,” answered Uncle Jack.

“He must have left his tail at home,” said big brother.

“He looks scared. We must build him a house,” said papa.

So they all went to work and made a nice house for Bunny, and big
brother brought him a large leaf of cabbage to eat.

Two big tears rolled down poor Bunny’s face, for the cabbage made him
think of his fright in the garden, and his sore paw, and how he had
left home.

Then Harold took Bunny in his arms and hugged him, and that made the
poor little rabbit feel better, and he fell asleep.

When Harold put Bunny back in his box, he forgot to shut the door. He
never thought that in the morning his new pet might be gone.

[Illustration:

  When Bunny runs away to roam,
  Some one is sure to bring him home.
  So Bunny should be good, I say,
  And not go out and run away.]




CHAPTER II


Late that night Bunny Cotton-Tail made up his mind to run away. So he
crept out of his little house, and through a hole in the back fence,
and was off. The great moon was staring down at him, and he was very
much afraid of the moon, but he could not go very fast, for his paw
still hurt him and he limped sadly.

After a while he sat down on a log to rest, and whom did he see coming
down the road with a wheel-barrow but Mother Cotton-Tail? She had been
searching all night and all day for Bunny.

When Bunny saw his mother he clapped his paws together so hard that he
hurt his sore one, and he cried: “Oh, ma, oh, ma!”

Mother Cotton-Tail did not waste any words, for Mr. Fox is out in the
woods at night. She just tumbled Bunny into that old wheel-barrow, and
whisk! they went down the road; while the big moon laughed and made a
face at them.

When they got home all the rabbits in the neighborhood stood around the
front gate, and they all cried: “Hurrah! welcome home, Bunny!”

Bunny was so ashamed that he hung his head and waved his sore paw
feebly. Then his mother took him into the house and put him to bed.

Poor Bunny was so shaken up by the ride in that wheel-barrow that he
did not sleep very well, and next day he had to stay at home with his
mother while all the other rabbits went to a pic-nic.

After supper, when he was sitting up in a big arm-chair by the window,
whom should he see coming slowly up the road but his dear friend Susan
Cotton-Tail? Susan Cotton-Tail walked slowly because she was very
tired. The rabbits had tramped miles and miles on that pic-nic.

Susan Cotton-Tail carried something on her arm. At first Bunny thought
it was a bag, and then he saw it was a basket. What do you suppose
Susan Cotton-Tail had in that basket? She had some nice things that she
had saved for Bunny, from the pic-nic.

When Susan saw Bunny sitting by the window, she did not stop to go
around to the front door, as her mother had trained her to do. She
jumped right in through the window, and took a seat on the arm of
Bunny’s chair.

Have you ever had to stay at home from a pic-nic when all the other
children went? And did you have a dear friend who brought you some of
the good things to eat? If so, you know just how Bunny felt.

Susan Cotton-Tail had sandwiches in that basket, and cabbage leaves and
radishes, and little cookies cut in the shape of a rabbit. (One of the
mother rabbits had made these for a joke.)

After a nice visit Susan said she must go home.

Susan wanted to go and pick berries next day. Bunny asked his mother if
he might go too, and she said he might, if he would try to be a good
little rabbit after this. Bunny promised, and then he went with Susan
to the gate.

[Illustration:

  As Mr. Bunny Cotton-Tail
    Went walking down the street,
  It was his great good fortune
    Susan Cotton-Tail to meet.

  Said Susan, “My dear Bunny,
    If you would only try
  To open wide your parasol,
    Your fur would keep quite dry!”]




CHAPTER III


The next day, when Bunny Cotton-Tail woke up, he heard the rain
pattering against the window panes. He cried so loud, and his tears
fell so fast, that his little brother thought the roof was leaking!

Mother Cotton-Tail said it would do no good to cry about the rain, and
she went to the closet and brought out a beautiful new silk umbrella.
She had bought it for a birthday present for Bunny, but she hated to
see Bunny unhappy, so she said he might go out in the rain so as to use
it.

Now, Bunny was not a very careful little rabbit, so he did not wait
to learn how to open it, but ran out of the house and down the road
with the umbrella in his paw. That is the reason you see him so in the
picture. He ran fast, because he wanted to show Susan his new present.

Now, wasn’t it odd that on that very same morning Susan Cotton-Tail
cried when she saw the rain, and that her mother gave her a beautiful
new umbrella? But Susan was a careful rabbit, and learned how to open
and use the umbrella before she went out.

Susan had left her basket at Bunny’s house the night before, so her
mother said she might go after it. That is the way the two rabbits
happened to meet.

Bunny was delighted when Susan showed him how to open his umbrella,
and they stood there some time, talking in the rain. Of course it was
too wet to go for berries, but they wanted to have some fun, so they
decided to go to Bunny’s house and blow soap-bubbles.

On the way home they passed a nice garden. Farmer Jones was out working
in it that morning. Bunny wished very much for a bite of cabbage, so he
begged Susan to come and hide behind the raspberry bushes, so that they
could nibble something while Farmer Jones was not looking. Now Susan
was a good little rabbit, and she knew that to steal is very wrong, so
she said, “No.”

Then Susan and Bunny went on to Bunny’s house, and here they blew
soap-bubbles all the morning.

[Illustration:

  Little Bunny Cotton-Tail
    Should not try to roam
  In Farmer Jones’s cabbage-patch;
    He ought to stay at home.]




CHAPTER IV


Next day, Bunny went over to Susan’s house and found Susan’s mother
crying, and what do you suppose had happened? Why, Susan Cotton-Tail
had not come home, and her mother was afraid she might be lost.

When Bunny heard the news, he cried into a little red handkerchief that
he had wrapped around his sore paw, and he said he wished to die if
Susan Cotton-Tail could not be found!

Now Bunny knew that old Farmer Jones hated the sight of even his little
stubby tail, so he thought the quickest way for him to die would be to
run over into the farmer’s garden.

He told Susan’s mother good-by, waved his sore paw feebly, and set
out for the garden. He thought that if he must die he would eat some
cabbage first, and he was nibbling away when he heard some one whisper
his name very softly.

At first he thought it was Marie, Farmer Jones’s little girl, so he
curled right up close beside a cabbage, and did not say a word. He
peeped around the cabbage, and he could see Farmer Jones’s blue shirt,
and once in a while he could hear him whistle.

Then he heard a soft little voice say: “Bunny, Bunny, Bunny.” He
looked over by the raspberry bushes, and what do you suppose he saw?
There was Susan Cotton-Tail, caught in a trap!

When Bunny saw Susan he forgot all about Farmer Jones, and he gave a
loud squeal, just the same kind of a squeal he gave when he burned his
paw. Farmer Jones came running, and cried: “Ah, ha! I have caught the
rabbit at last!”

Bunny had just time to jump into a flower pot, and Farmer Jones found
poor Susan in the trap.

“Now,” said Farmer Jones, “I have caught the naughty rabbit that eats
my cabbages, and I have a great mind to kill it!”

But he did not kill Susan--oh, my, no--for she just blinked her eyes
and smiled at him. She was not the least bit afraid; and why should she
have been, when she had never stolen anything from Farmer Jones in her
life?

Just then Marie came running out into the garden, and Farmer Jones said:

“See, Marie, I have caught the naughty rabbit that has been eating my
cabbages, and she looks as though she had never done anything wrong in
her life.”

“Oh, the sweet little thing!” cried Marie. “Let me have her for a pet,
and I will put a pretty blue ribbon around her neck.”

So Marie took Susan up in her little apron and carried her, very gently
and carefully, into the house. She made room for the little rabbit in
her doll’s bed, and there Susan fell asleep.

[Illustration:

  Little Bunny Cotton-Tail,
    Is running home, you see,
  And Miss Susan Cotton-Tail
    Keeps him company.]




CHAPTER V


What did Bunny Cotton-Tail do then, do you suppose? He felt so sorry
about Susan that he cried nearly all day, and he was so afraid of
Farmer Jones now, that he did not dare to come out of the flower pot!
The flower pot had rolled over on one side, so he was quite hidden.

Now it happened that Marie had a nice flower-bed in front of the house,
and a friend had given her a new plant to set out. So she began to look
for a flower pot to cover it. Of course, you can guess what happened.
Marie found Bunny Cotton-Tail, the flower pot and all! “Oh, papa, here
is another bunny! They must be twins,” she cried.

Farmer Jones came up, and when he saw how scared poor little Bunny
looked, he laughed. He said if they put the two rabbits together, they
could soon tell whether they knew each other or not. So Marie carried
Bunny into the house.

Susan Cotton-Tail had fallen asleep in the doll’s bed, so Marie slipped
Bunny in beside her, and he pretended to go to sleep, too. Farmer
Jones said this proved that they knew each other; for if they had been
strange rabbits, they would have fought.

Night came on, and the big clock in the hall struck twelve, and Susan
woke up. She was so delighted to find Bunny beside her, that she almost
screamed for joy, but Bunny put one little soft paw over her mouth, for
he was afraid she would waken some one, and he was already planning how
they could get away from Farmer Jones’s house.

He told Susan that he had heard the cook say she would leave the pantry
window open to keep her preserves cool, so, if they could only find the
pantry, they might escape.

Susan listened so eagerly that her ears flopped on the side of the
doll’s bed as though she were keeping time to a tune.

Bunny stole out of bed, and began to search for the pantry. He told
Susan to wait until he came back for her.

The moon was not shining, and it was very dark. Bunny felt his way
along carefully, till he came to the sitting-room. Here he saw a big
black box, beside a window, and it looked to him as though the window
were open. Up he jumped on the box, to make sure, and crash! he fell
on something that played a tune! The quicker he ran up and down, the
louder the tune was, and the louder the tune was, the more scared Bunny
was, and the more he ran up and down.

Farmer Jones waked up and could not think what all the noise meant.
He jumped out of bed and ran down stairs two steps at a time, with a
candle in his hand. He found Bunny dancing about on the piano keys, and
he laughed till he cried.

Then he called the whole family down stairs to see the strange sight.
Everybody laughed and petted Bunny, and the more they laughed, the more
scared he was, until he saw Susan peeping around a curtain at him.

Then he gave one bound for the open window. Susan followed him, quick
as a flash, and whisk! the two frightened little rabbits were racing
away down the road before one of the family could say, “Jack Robinson.”

What Farmer Jones and the family thought about it I cannot say, but I
can tell you that Susan and Bunny were very careful never to go into
his garden again.

[Illustration:

  Little Bunny Cotton-Tail
    Should have gone to school to-day.
  He cried so hard he could not see,
    And went the other way!]




CHAPTER VI


When Susan’s mother saw Susan, she laughed and she cried. Then she put
Susan to bed, and there the poor little rabbit stayed for a week, and
then it was time for school to begin.

When Bunny’s mother saw him, she switched him with a little maple
switch, and sat him up in the corner until he told the whole story.

Bunny ran away so much, you see, that his mother was quite used to it,
while Susan was a good rabbit and had never before run away from home.

The week passed, and then Bunny’s mother said Bunny must go to school.
For rabbits have to go to school if they want to learn anything, of
course!

So she put up a nice little lunch for Bunny, and gave his coat an extra
brush. She brushed him so hard that he cried a little, and went down
the road with his dinner pail on his arm, brushing the tears away with
his sore paw!

Bunny never did like to go to school very well, so when he stopped
crying, and found that he had taken the wrong road and was going into
the woods, he was not sorry at all.

He went on a little way and saw some squirrels. They seemed to be
having a very good time, and Bunny sat down to watch them at their
play. Then he opened his basket and began to eat his lunch, for he was
always hungry.

He was so tired then, after his long tramp, that he fell asleep, and he
never opened his eyes until he heard a soft “tinkle, tinkle, tinkle.”
He opened his eyes, and there stood Susan Cotton-Tail, smiling at him.

Bunny did not know where he was, at first, but he rubbed his eyes
hard, and then he asked Susan where she had got the dear little bell
that hung around her neck. Susan said it was a reward given her by her
teacher for good behavior. Then Bunny was sorry that he had not gone
to school, for he liked the “tinkle, tinkle” of that bell.

Susan said that all the rabbits were out looking for Bunny, and that
they thought him very naughty.

When Bunny got home, he said that he would go to school now every day
if Susan might stop for him. It worked well for a week, then that
naughty Bunny got up early and went down to watch the little fishes
swimming in the brook. All the rabbits went out to look for him and
found him and took him home, as before.

That night Mother Cotton-Tail sat by the fire a long time, thinking.
Presently, she crept softly out of the house, shutting the door behind
her.

[Illustration:

  Mother Bunny Cotton-Tail
    Seeks Mr. Owl, you see,
  And little Bunny Cotton-Tail
    Is scared as scared can be.]




CHAPTER VII


Now, what do you suppose Mother Bunny was going to do? She was going to
find Mr. Owl, who is the wisest creature in the woods. And why was she
going to find Mr. Owl? Because she wanted to ask him how to stop Bunny
Cotton-Tail from running away.

Mr. Owl was at home, as usual, sitting on a branch of an old pine-tree.
When Mother Cotton-Tail told her story, he blinked his round eyes and
turned his head all the way around to hide a smile. He had heard of
Bunny Cotton-Tail before.

Mr. Owl did not talk very much; wise people never do. So he answered
Mother Cotton-Tail with two words: “Mr. Fox.”

Mother Cotton-Tail did not see what that meant, but Mr. Owl had no more
to say, so she started slowly homeward.

On the way home she passed Mr. Fox’s den. There she saw an old overcoat
of his out on the line. Then, whisk! jump! as quick as a wink she had
that overcoat down from the line, and was off, carrying it over her
shoulder.

When she was safely away from Mr. Fox’s den, she crept into the coat,
though it was much too big, and doubled her ears up neatly inside his
cap.

She looked ahead of her, and what did she see, coming down the road,
but a little rabbit--a naughty, run-away little rabbit? She knew at
once that it was her own Bunny.

Mother Cotton-Tail stood very still in the shadow of a tree, and when
Bunny came by, she whisked out, and took him in her arms and started
straight for Mr. Fox’s den.

Bunny Cotton-Tail was so scared that he did not say a word, but he
thought he felt his hair turning gray, and that was a pity for one so
young!

When they got near the den, Mother Cotton-Tail stopped. Everything was
very still.

“Now, Bunny,” she said, “you shall go in there, and we will eat you
up, unless you promise never to run away any more.”

Did Bunny promise? Well, indeed he did, in a hurry! And Mother
Cotton-Tail told him that all the foxes knew about it and would catch
him if he ever ran away again.

Then she gave him a big hug, which scared him nearly to death. Think
of his being scared when his own mother hugged him! But you see, he
thought she was Mr. Fox. Then she let Bunny go, and he ran straight
home.

Mother Cotton-Tail put Mr. Fox’s coat back on the line and went home,
too, very happy.

Bunny Cotton-Tail never ran away from home any more. So Mr. Owl knew
what he was talking about, after all.

Bunny and Susan were always the best of friends, but whether his sore
paw ever got well or not, I cannot tell you, for I forgot to ask him.




Little People of Other Lands Series

By Mary Muller


_LITTLE PEOPLE OF THE SNOW_

=_For Third and Fourth Grades._= Adopted by the Chicago Board of
Education as a Supplementary Reader. Away up in the North Land live
the Eskimos, or the Little People of the Snow. This book tells in
a fascinating way the story of Eskimo life, ever interesting to
all children. The type is large; and the book is admirable reading
for the grades for which it is intended. It contains twenty-eight
illustrations, many of which are full page; 108 pages of reading
matter. =Silver stamped cloth cover, price, 35 cents. Boards, 25 cents.=


_LITTLE PEOPLE OF JAPAN_

=_For Third and Fourth Grades_=. In the story of the birth and
surroundings and growth of Kaga, a Japanese boy, the author gives
children an interesting insight into the customs, dress and child tales
of this notable people. The book is appropriately illustrated with
half-tones from photographs from life. =Cloth, 192 pages. Price, 40
cents.=


_THE STORY OF WRETCHED FLEA_, A Little Chinese Boy.

=_For Second and Third Grades._= Miss Muller has a charming way of
telling about little folks, for little folks. In the story of Wretched
Flea she tells of the home life of a typical Chinese boy, beginning
with his birth, his surroundings as a baby, as a school boy, as a
worker on his father’s tea farm, as a young man attending college,
and his early manhood. All children will be greatly interested in it
and every person can learn much from it of these strange people. The
quaint custom in China of attempting to fool evil spirits is shown by
the peculiar name of the boy whose life is so entertainingly written
by Mary Muller. =Large type. Illustrated. Cloth. 157 pages. Price, 35
cents.=


_STORY OF AKIMAKOO_, An African Boy.

The scene is laid in the wilds of Africa. Akimakoo is the son of
the ruler of a strong tribe of the wilds of Africa. He is ambitious
to become a great hunter. In telling the story of the attaining of
his wishes, descriptions are given of the people, their habits and
productions; the elephant hunt; among the cannibals; of the wary
crocodile, etc. The story is good--has all of Miss Muller’s art.
=Cloth, 150 pages. Price, 35 cents.=


A. FLANAGAN COMPANY, CHICAGO




Charming Animal Stories--Both Old and New


_BLACK BEAUTY_

=_For Third and Fourth Grades._= The autobiography of a horse. Black
Beauty, in recounting the many incidents of his life, has given us a
series of stories full of interest, danger and excitement, through all
of which is a pathetic plea for the more considerate treatment of his
kind. He tells his story from colthood to old age, and an interesting
one it is. In fact, few stories have equaled it.

Over one million copies have been sold. Our edition is the best one on
the market to-day for the money. The paper is good, the print large,
the binding strong. =214 pages. Price, Cloth, 30 cents. Paper 15 cents.=


_COLLIERY JIM_: The Autobiography of a Mine Mule.

=_For Fourth and Fifth Grades._ By Nora Finch.= Hundreds of thousands
of “Black Beauty” have been sold, and the amount of good done by the
publication of this book is beyond estimate.

Colliery Jim is similar in style and character, but is an account of
a mine mule instead of a horse. The style is much the same. It begins
with his early life in the West, his purchase, and the sending of him
to a coal mine in Pennsylvania. Descriptions are given of the methods
of shipping live stock, suggestions made in reference to the same.

Colliery Jim tells about coal mines, of the methods of mining, and all
the conditions existing at present.

Miss Finch lives in a part of the coal mining district of Pennsylvania
and her work is based on facts. =Illustrated. Good type, paper and
print. Cloth. 170 pages. Price, 40 cents.=


_DUKE_

=_For Third and Fourth Grades._= This is a sequel to Black Beauty,
and like it has met with great popularity. It is the story of Duke,
one of the noblest dogs of dog kind. The frolics of Duke and his
merry companions are the delight of all children and make a most
interesting story. The intelligence of this dog is almost human.
His many hairbreadth escapes, his rescues of human life, his noble
self-sacrifices, his wonderful adventures, make him the hero of all
dogs, and render his life human in everything but speech. =154 pages.
Price, Cloth, 30 cents. Paper, 15 cents.=


_THE STRIKE AT SHANE’S_

=For Third and Fourth Grades.= This is a second sequel to Black Beauty,
and is a strong plea for dumb animals. It points a moral that all
should read and fully heed.

It illustrates how an avaricious man in his greed for money can be
misled into the cruel abuse of dumb animals, how retribution overtakes
him in the form of a “strike” among the beasts of burden, how he is
finally led to see the error of his way, and how prosperity once more
smiles upon him. =96 pages. Price, Cloth, 30 cents. Paper 15 cents.=


A. FLANAGAN COMPANY, CHICAGO




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Emboldened text is surrounded by equals signs: =bold=.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TALE OF BUNNY COTTON-TAIL ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
